Adding smart contracts functionality to the Coretime chain (#96)
polkadot-fellows/RFCs: text/00xx-smart-contracts-coretime-chain.md

Reviewer: File name should be `0096`, not `00xx`

> # RFC-0002: Smart Contracts on the Coretime Chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# RFC-0096: Smart Contracts on the Coretime Chain
```

|                 |                                                                                             |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Start Date**  | 2024-06-09                                                                                  |

> | **Description** | Implement smart contracts on the Coretime chain                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Description** | Integrate smart contracts with the Coretime chain                                             |
```

| **Authors**     | [Aurora Poppyseed](https://github.com/poppyseedDev/), [Phil Lucksok](https://github.com/phillux)  |

## Summary

> This RFC proposes the implementation of smart contracts on the Coretime chain to enhance flexibility and enable complex decentralized applications, including secondary market functionalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This RFC proposes the integration of smart contracts on the Coretime chain to enhance flexibility and enable complex decentralized applications, including secondary market functionalities.
```

Currently, the Coretime chain lacks the capability to support smart contracts, which limits the range of decentralized applications that can be developed and deployed. By enabling smart contracts, the Coretime chain can facilitate more sophisticated functionalities such as automated region trading, dynamic pricing mechanisms, and other decentralized applications that require programmable logic. This will enhance the utility of the Coretime chain, attract more developers, and create more opportunities for innovation.

Additionally, while there is a proposal (#885) to allow EVM-compatible contracts on Polkadot’s Asset Hub, the implementation of smart contracts directly on the Coretime chain will provide synchronous interactions and avoid the complexities of asynchronous operations via XCM. 

## Stakeholders

Primary stakeholders include:
- Developers working on the Coretime chain.
- Users who want to deploy decentralized applications on the Coretime chain.
- Community members interested in expanding the capabilities of the Coretime chain.
- Secondary Coretime marketplaces.

## Explanation

This RFC introduces the following key components:

1. **Smart Contract Support**:

>     - Implement support for deploying and executing smart contracts on the Coretime chain.
>     - Use a well-established smart contract platform, such as Ethereum’s Solidity or Polkadot's Ink!, to ensure compatibility and ease of use.

Reviewer: Solidity and ink aren't platforms, maybe you mean, "Use a well-supported smart contract virtual machine that supports contracts written in either Solidity or ink."?
```suggestion
    - Integrate support for deploying and executing smart contracts on the Coretime chain.
    - Use a well-established smart contract platform, such as Ethereum’s Solidity or Polkadot's Ink!, to ensure compatibility and ease of use.
```

    - Define a storage structure for smart contracts and their associated data.
    - Ensure efficient and secure execution of smart contracts, with proper resource management and gas fee mechanisms.

3. **Integration with Existing Pallets**:
    - Ensure that smart contracts can interact with existing pallets on the Coretime chain, such as the broker pallet.
    - Provide APIs and interfaces for seamless integration and interaction.

4. **Security and Auditing**:
    - Implement robust security measures to prevent vulnerabilities and exploits in smart contracts.
    - Conduct thorough security audits and testing before deployment.

## Drawbacks

There are several drawbacks to consider:
- **Complexity**: Adding smart contracts introduces significant complexity to the Coretime chain, which may increase maintenance overhead and the potential for bugs.
- **Performance**: The execution of smart contracts can be resource-intensive, potentially affecting the performance of the Coretime chain.
- **Security**: Smart contracts are prone to vulnerabilities and exploits, necessitating rigorous security measures and continuous monitoring.

## Testing, Security, and Privacy

### Testing

> - Comprehensive unit tests and integration tests should be developed to ensure the correct functionality of smart contracts.

Reviewer: This seems outside the scope of the RFC, since by definition we can't control what contracts people deploy. Could you clarify to state that the tests should cover the functionality of the contract virtual machine and interactions that it can have with the rest of the runtime?

Author: @joepetrowski thanks for catching that. By this I meant that there need to be tests that ensure that the broker pallet functionality that is for example exposed to the smart contracts has doesn't pose any vulnerabilities.

- Test scenarios should include various use cases and edge cases to validate the robustness of the implementation.

### Security
- Security audits should be performed to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities.
- Implement best practices for smart contract development to minimize the risk of exploits.
- Continuous monitoring and updates will be necessary to address new security threats.

### Privacy
- The proposal does not introduce new privacy concerns as it extends existing functionalities with programmable logic.

## Performance, Ergonomics, and Compatibility

### Performance
- The introduction of smart contracts may impact performance due to the additional computational overhead.

> - Optimization techniques, such as efficient gas fee mechanisms and resource management, should be employed to minimize performance degradation.

Reviewer: This should be pretty easy to mitigate by giving contracts a custom `DispatchClass` and limiting how much of the block they can consume, so we ensure some amount is always reserved for "core" Coretime functionality.
